# LCS
## Learning Classifier Systems from Scratch

This repository is a collection of Learning Classifier Systems development and experimentation. The goal is to create workable learning classifier systems from scratch in python. This will pull info from multiple sources and classifier systems. Everything from Urbanowicz's video description, to Wilson's ZCS and XCS, and But'z XCSTS and APS2. The main goal for these custom learning classifier systems is not to simply just copy existing LCS designs, but also to try and simplifiy them while maintaining performance. One of the end goals of this LCS research is to create a functional LCS that can be run on a quantum computer. In order to facilitate this, as much math and statistics as possible will be stripped away. For example, Butz's well performing XCSTS uses gradient descent for reward propication, Q-Learning, and Bayesian decision trees to try and push performance to higher levels in terms of speed and accuracy. These advances significantly reduce learning time and computional resources. However, the thought here is that even basic LCS that would traditionally be underwhelming when run on a conventional computer will be exceedingly fast when ran on a quantum computer. If the basic LCS design can be distilled down into memory lists, simple logic gates, and random number generators, it should be able to be translated to run on a quantum computer.

A Learning Classifier System is a type of machine learning algorithm originally concieved by Dr. John Holland in 1975 with his Cognitive System 1 (CS1). Whereas neural networks are designed to mimic the physical architecture of the brain, CS1 was designed to mimic how the brain thinks and learns. In its implest description, LCS is a large "if, then" list where the condition-action pairs are evolved over time through a genetic algorithm, another invention of Dr. Holland. Through the evolution of many simple rules, complex interactions can form and the LCS starts to become a complex adaptive system, similar to large scale neural networks. In theory, an intricate enough LCS could become a conscious machine learning that processes information and thinks the way the human mind does. To this end, it is believed by many that consiousness is an inherently quantum property. Additinoally, basic LCS use the ternary alphabet of 0, 1, and # where the hash simble is the "don't care" symbol. This alphabet directly corresponds to the posibilities of quantum states i.e., 0, 1, or in superposition. If data and LCS operations can be borken down to solely rely on the ternary alphabet (this should be possible as conventional computers only run on binary), then LCS should perform very well when run on a quantum computer.